The Claremont Colleges’ Turing Test
COGS 123/NEUR 125 — Profs. Agarwal, Bang, & Keeley

You’ve read about the Turing Test, as well as the “imitation game” parlor game on which Turing
based his test. To give you a chance to think through the concepts and constraints of the Turing
Test, we are going to conduct our own Claremont Colleges’ version of the test. Let’s see how
good you are at differentiating Claremont imposters from Claremont truth tellers!
The class will be divided into groups of three students. In each group, there will be an
Interrogator (IN), a Poser (PS) and a True Collegian (TC). The task of IN will be to figure out
which of the other two participants is telling the truth about which College they attend, and
which one is lying. The job of PS is to convince IN they’re from a Claremont College that they
do not attend. The job of TC will be to convince IN that they really ARE from the College they
attend. Everyone will be anonymous. (And please don’t “cheat;” don’t do anything that would
reveal your personal identity during the game. That would take the fun out of it.)
Important: No using search engines or any resources on the Internet! Make
use only of your own pre-existing knowledge about the Claremont Colleges.
We will be using the chat feature in Zoom breakout rooms for all interactions. So, for example,
perhaps IN is from Pitzer, PS is from Scripps and TC is from Pomona. IN will try to figure out
which of the other two random interlocutors REALLY is from Pomona (as both TC and PS try to
convince IN that they are the REAL Pomona student).
All of this will be done entirely by typing. No turning on cameras or microphones.
The test will occur in our class Zoom room. We will be admitting students one at a time (to
rename them) and then putting them back in the waiting room. Once everybody has been given

an anonymous name, everybody will be readmitted to the room and then disbursed into the three-
person breakout rooms.

Rules:
1. When the session begins, everyone should jot down the (fake) names of yourself and the
other two people and note who is the IN and what College the TC and PS are trying to
represent. This information will be in the name of the Room.
2. Remain anonymous, don’t reveal your personal identity (this goes for all players).
3. PS and TC should direct their questions and answers only to IN. PS and TC will be able
to read one another’s responses and can refer to those responses—but let IN direct the
conversation. No back and forth arguments between PS and TC!
4. Interrogation sessions will be from 10-15 minutes each.
5. After the time limit is up, the chat session will end and the IN should make a note to
themselves who they think the TC is.